# RFID-Based-Acess-and-Monitoring-System
#                                                                         Abstract
Nowadays, most universities provide many services like libraries, student activity centers, research laboratories, and many more to their students and professors round-the-clock. Authorization to this service is based on the type of student and staff you are?  For authorization and monitoring of these services, paper-based record registers are maintained. This process of maintaining records is time-consuming, inconvenient, and lacks data accuracy. In conventional systems, there is no proper method of assessing and monitoring the person's activity.
	The main objective of this project is to tackle the above-mentioned problems, by designing and developing an RFID (Radio Frequency Identification) based accessing and monitoring system which is integrated with the database of the Institute. In this system all students, staff are given an id card with an RFID tag inside. The services can be accessed by placing an id card near an RFID reader. if a person has access to that particular service which they are trying to access is permitted otherwise access is denied. This system will also make a note to every person how much time they consume in any services in sync with the real-time clock. It also provides a proper method for monitoring the person's activity. Since all data is centrally integrated with university databases locally hosted and password protected. The security concerns of data and assets are also acknowledged by this system. Since all data of student and staff activities are centrally available and accurate. This helps the university to channelize energy into the correct direction, hence boosting performance. 
